Two years ago, we set out on
a journey to change the way
that Washington works.
We sought a government that
served not the interests
of powerful lobbyists
or the wealthiest few,
but the middle-class
Americans I met every day
in every community along
the campaign trail -
responsible men and women who
are working harder than ever,
worrying about their
jobs, and struggling
to raise their families.
In so many town
halls and backyards,
they spoke of their
hopes for a government
that finally confronts
the challenges
that their families face
every day; a government
that treats their tax
dollars as responsibly
as they treat their own
hard-earned paychecks.
That is the change I promised
as a candidate for president.
It is the change the American
people voted for in November.
And it is the change
represented
by the budget I sent
to Congress this week.
During the campaign, I promised
a fair and balanced tax code
that would cut taxes for
95% of working Americans,
roll back the tax
breaks for those making
over $250,000 a year, and end
the tax breaks for corporations
that ship our jobs overseas.
This budget does that.
I promised an economy run
on clean, renewable energy
that will create new American
jobs, new American industries,
and free us from the
dangerous grip of foreign oil.
This budget puts
us on that path,
through a market-based
cap on carbon pollution
that will make renewable energy
the profitable kind of energy;
through investments in
wind power and solar power;
advanced biofuels, clean coal,
and more fuel-efficient
American cars
and American trucks.
I promised to bring down the
crushing cost of health care -
a cost that bankrupts one
American every thirty seconds,
forces small businesses
to close their doors,
and saddles our
government with more debt.
This budget keeps that promise,
with a historic commitment
to reform that will lead
to lower costs and quality,
affordable health care
for every American.
I promised an education system
that will prepare every
American to compete,
so Americans can win
in a global economy.
This budget will help us meet
that goal, with new incentives
for teacher performance and
pathways for advancement;
new tax credits that will make
college more affordable for all
who want to go; and new
support to ensure that those
who do go finish their degree.
This budget also
reflects the stark reality
of what we've inherited -
a trillion dollar deficit,
a financial crisis,
and a costly recession.
Given this reality, we'll have
to be more vigilant than ever
in eliminating the programs
we don't need in order
to make room for the
investments we do need.
I promised to do this by going
through the federal budget page
by page, and line by line.
That is a process we have
already begun, and I am pleased
to say that we've already
identified two trillion dollars
worth of deficit-reductions
over the next decade.
We've also restored a sense
of honesty and transparency
to our budget, which is why
this one accounts for spending
that was hidden or left
out under the old rules.
I realize that passing
this budget won't be easy.
Because it represents
real and dramatic change,
it also represents a threat to
the status quo in Washington.
I know that the insurance
industry won't like the idea
that they'll have
to bid competitively
to continue offering
Medicare coverage,
but that's how we'll help
preserve and protect Medicare
and lower health care costs
for American families.
I know that banks and
big student lenders won't
like the idea that we're ending
their huge taxpayer subsidies,
but that's how we'll save
taxpayers nearly $50 billion
and make college
more affordable.
I know that oil and
gas companies won't
like us ending nearly $30
billion in tax breaks,
but that's how we'll help fund
a renewable energy economy
that will create new
jobs and new industries.
In other words, I know
these steps won't sit well
with the special interests
and lobbyists who are invested
in the old way of
doing business,
and I know they're gearing
up for a fight as we speak.
My message to them
is this: So am I.
The system we have now
might work for the powerful
and well-connected interests
that have run Washington
for far too long, but I don't.
I work for the American people.
I didn't come here to do the
same thing we've been doing
or to take small steps forward,
I came to provide
the sweeping change
that this country
demanded when it went
to the polls in November.
That is the change this
budget starts to make,
and that is the
change I'll be fighting
for in the weeks ahead - change
that will grow our economy,
expand our middle-class, and
keep the American Dream alive
for all those men and women who
have believed in this journey
from the day it began.
Thanks for listening.